@node mmmd_mon
@chapter @command{mmmd_mon} - the monitor
@cindex mmmd_mon
@cindex Monitor

@node States
@section States
@cindex States

@multitable @columnfractions .30 .80

@item @code{ONLINE}				@tab Host is running without any problems.

@item @code{ADMIN_OFFLINE}		@tab host was set to offline manually.

@item @code{HARD_OFFLINE}		@tab Host is offline (Check @code{ping} and/or @code{mysql} failed)

@item @code{AWAITING_RECOVERY}	@tab Host is awaiting recovery

@item @code{REPLICATION_DELAY}	@tab replication backlog is too big (Check @code{rep_backlog} failed)

@item @code{REPLICATION_FAIL}	@tab replication threads are not running (Check @code{rep_threads} failed)

@end multitable

@itemize
@item Only hosts with state @code{ONLINE} may have roles. When a host switches 
from @code{ONLINE} to any other state, all roles will be removed from it.

@item A host that was in state @code{REPLICATION_DELAY} or 
@code{REPLICATION_FAIL} will be switched back to @code{ONLINE} if everything 
is OK again, unless it is flapping (see @ref{Flapping}).

@item A host that was in state @code{HARD_OFFLINE} will be switched to 
@code{AWAITING_RECOVERY} if everything is OK again. If its downtime was shorter 
than 60 seconds and it wasn't rebooted, it will be switched back to @code{ONLINE} 
automatically, unless it is flapping (see @ref{Flapping} again).

@item Replication backlog or failure on the active master isn't considered 
to be a problem, so the active master will never be in state 
@code{REPLICATION_DELAY} or @code{REPLICATION_FAIL}.

@item Replication backlog or failure will be ignored on hosts whos peers got 
@code{ONLINE} less than 60 seconds ago (That's the default value of 
@code{master-connect-retry}).

@item If both checks @code{rep_backlog} and @code{rep_threads} fail, the state will change to @code{REPLICATION_FAIL}.

@end itemize

@node Roles
@section Roles
@cindex Roles

There are two types of roles:

@table @asis
@item @code{exclusive} roles
Exclusive roles may only have one ip and are assigned to one host at a time. 
You may specify a @emph{preferred} host, to which the role will always be 
moved, if it's online. @strong{Note:} You can't move roles which are assigned to the preferred host, because they would be moved back to it immediately.

@item @code{balanced} roles
Balanced roles may have multiple ips. The ips will be balanced between the hosts, so that
no host has two roles more than another host. 
@end table

TODO describe active_master_role
allow writes
change master of all hosts with mode=slave to this host

@node Status file
@section Status file
@cindex Status file
information about host state and roles @file{@var{status_path}}


@node Checks
@section Checks
@cindex Checks

mmmd_mon performs four different checks on each host to determine if it is OK. These checks are:

@multitable @columnfractions .20 .80
@item ping
@tab host is pingable
@item mysql
@tab MySQL server on the host is alive
@item rep_threads
@tab replication threads are running
@item rep_backlog
@tab replication backlog is not too big
@end multitable

@node Network check
@section Network check
@cindex Network check

mmmd_mon has the ability to detect a non-functioning network connection. It 
regularly pings all @var{ping_ips} defined in the config. If at least one 
ip is reachable, the network is considered to be working.

Without working network connection mmmd_mon will... 
@itemize
@item ... ignore failed checks.
@item ... not change the state of hosts.
@item ... not send anything to agents.
@end itemize

@noindent
If the network connection doesn't work during startup, mmmd_mon will switch into passive mode (@pxref{Passive mode}).


@node Flapping
@section Flapping
@cindex Flapping, flap detection

mmmd_mon supports the detection of hosts that are "flapping". Flapping occurs 
if a host which is @code{ONLINE} changes its state to @code{HARD_OFFLINE} / @code{REPLICATION_FAIL} 
/ @code{REPLICATION_DELAY} too often and each time gets switched back to @code{ONLINE} 
because it has been down for less than 60 seconds. This may lead to roles 
getting switched between hosts very often.

To prevent this mmmd_mon has a built in flap-detection which can be tuned in 
the configuration file. If a host goes down for more than @var{flap_count} 
times within @var{flap_duration} seconds it is considered as 
flapping and will not be set @code{ONLINE} automatically. It will stay in state 
@code{AWAITING_RECOVERY} until it gets set online (with @command{mmm_control set_online @var{host}}).

@node Passive mode
@section Passive mode
@cindex passive mode

entered if no network connection during startup
entered if discrepancies are detected during startup
entered with set_passive

roles can be changed (unclean) with set_ip
changed to active with set_active

roles get never changed automatically
nothing is send to agents
status file won't be updated

@node Startup
@section Startup
@cindex Startup

performs initial network check
performs initial host checks
reads information from
... status file
... agents (agent info)
... hosts (system info)
if that matches -> ok
if not matches -> passive mode
if no network -> passive mode

